[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>SUE MORTER: What holds
people back from healing?
Is it that we continue to keep
seeing ourselves as victims
instead of taking responsibility
for our well-being?
And why is gratitude so
important for our body temple?
Today, we are going to
talk with Reverend Michael
Beckwith about why
it is important
that we need to
grow up and show up
if we wish to heal and evolve.
33 years ago, Reverend
Michael created a community
in his living room that
has grown to 9,000 members,
and over a million
people worldwide.
Take a look at the
power of Agape.
>>MICHAEL BECKWITH: You're
at the center of divine joy.
>>AUDIENCE: The
center of divine joy.
>>BECKWITH: You're at the
center of divine beauty.
>>AUDIENCE: The center
of divine beauty.
>>BECKWITH: Cosmic intelligence.
>>AUDIENCE: Cosmic intelligence.
>>BECKWITH:
Transforming knowledge.
>>AUDIENCE:
>>BECKWITH: Divine well-being.
>>AUDIENCE: Divine well-being.
>>BECKWITH: Hey, now.
>>AUDIENCE: Hey, now.
>>BECKWITH: I'm at
the center of life.
>>AUDIENCE: I'm at
>>BECKWITH: I love life.
>>AUDIENCE: I love life.
>>BECKWITH: And life loves me.
>> I mean, I can feel it even
as I'm speaking about Agape.
I love the community because
it's all about love--
loving beyond
what's comfortable.
I think that's been
one of the greatest
gifts Agape has given me.
>> The healing for me came
as my commitment deepened,
my practice deepened.
I was at Agape all the time.
From that day on, I
was in classes, or help
with fundraising,
and whatever I could
do to be a part of
our blessed community.
>> One of Reverend Michael's
sayings that I love is give
to live until you live to give.
>>BECKWITH: I love God.
>>AUDIENCE: I love God.
>>BECKWITH: God loves me.
>>AUDIENCE: God loves me.
>>BECKWITH: I love joy.
>>AUDIENCE: I love joy.
>>BECKWITH: Joy loves me.
>>AUDIENCE: Joy loves me.
>>BECKWITH: I love health.
>>AUDIENCE: I love health.
>>BECKWITH: Health loves me.
>>AUDIENCE: Health loves me.
>>BECKWITH: I love the all good.
>>AUDIENCE: I love the all good.
>>BECKWITH: The
all good loves me.
>>AUDIENCE: The
>>BECKWITH: Oh, I love to love.
>>AUDIENCE: I love to love.
>>BECKWITH: I love to love.
>>BECKWITH: And I love life.
>>AUDIENCE: I love life.
>>BECKWITH: Take
the holy breath.
>>SUE: Ahh.
I love you.
>>BECKWITH: Wow.
>>SUE: Reverend
Michael, you have
been an amazing piece
of my life as well,
and I can't wait to get into
this conversation with you,
and dig in.
But first, we want to start with
where this all began for you.
You had an awakening in college.
>>BECKWITH: I did.
I had several.
But my awakening as--
my first awakening as an adult
was in my last year at USC.
I was a psychobiology
major, and I was on track
to go to med school.
And I began to have a
series of inner experiences.
And at that time, I labeled
the experiences pathological,
because you don't want to
tell your teachers that you're
hearing voices, or having
visions, or leaving your body.
And I didn't know
what any of that was.
I hadn't studied any
of that material.
And ultimately, it culminated
with these men chasing me
in a lucid dream.
This went on for a
long period of time.
And then one night,
they were very close.
And I could even make out
the features on their face.
And I decided not
to run anymore.
I looked around, and there
was a small tent behind me,
with thousands of people
trying to fit into this tent.
And I knew every
single person in line.
And I said to myself,
they can't hurt me.
I have all of my
friends with me.
Then one by one, they all
turned their back on me.
Two men grabbed me.
One man took a knife and
plunged it into my heart.
And the pain was excruciating
physically and emotionally.
I screamed out and I died.
And when I woke
up, I could see I
was surrounded by this
tremendous beauty that
was indescribable.
The love that was
penetrating my being
was beyond anything I'd
ever experienced in life.
And so my name for
the presence of God
was love beauty, because
the beauty everywhere--
the lint on the rug glowing with
the luminosity of the presence,
everything shining.
And I just felt penetrated by
love in every cell of my being.
And I knew that things
had changed for me.
And the box I was
living in at that time,
I never could get
back in it again.
And I remember
calling up a woman who
was a friend of my family's
who was a spiritual counselor.
I thought what she
was doing was sweet,
but I hadn't had
much interest in it.
And I called her up, and
I said I know everything
you're talking about.
And she said really, baby?
I said yeah.
I said we're living in it.
It's living in us.
It's everywhere.
And I began my
sojourn to discover
what had happened to
me, and then over years,
integrating into that
expanded awareness.
It was very powerful.
>>SUE: I know.
It is a life changing
reality when we wake up
from the reality we were
living in right into a greater
picture.
And healing happens on
every level in our lives
under those-- under
those conditions.
>>BECKWITH: You know, one of
the things that I was aware of
is that when that happened,
it's like worry disappeared.
It was like I was
looking at humanity,
and everybody was worried about
something, and afraid of this,
and afraid of death,
and afraid of loss.
It was like I don't have
anything to worry about.
>>SUE: There was nothing left.
>>BECKWITH: Everything
just fell off.
>>SUE: You've
mentioned in describing
that that fear died that night.
>>BECKWITH: Yeah,
fear, yeah, it was--
>>SUE: And can you
say more about that?
>>BECKWITH: It was like people
live in a kind of anxiousness
or anxiety about the future--
what's going to happen?
What's going to happen
if I lose my job?
What's going to happen if
this happens, or-- you know.
And they create all
kind of mental scenarios
that they experience even
if it doesn't happen,
because it's in their thinking.
And all-- everything
just completely stopped.
And the fear dissolved,
worry dissolved.
And there was a
period of time where
I didn't have any friends,
because everybody thought
that I was really weird.
So I lost all my
friends at the time.
And everybody thought
I just freaked out.
But I was just so
present and so alive
that eventually, the people
that came into my life
were more into the frequency
of who I was at that moment.
>>SUE: And then someone from
your past sought you out--
high school, a woman
from high school
found you for counseling--
>>BECKWITH: Oh my
god, yes, yes, yes.
>>SUE: --and wanted
you to speak with her.
>>BECKWITH: You
know what happened?
I was sitting in my
living room, and I
was wanting to know what I
wanted to do with my life.
And the phone rang,
and she called me.
And she said I found your
phone number in the high school
annual, and I was
guided to call you.
I've been having all
these particular issues,
and I was told that
you could help me.
So I began to do
spiritual counseling
on the phone with this woman.
And this went on for
a period of time.
I helped her through
a lot of things.
And then one day, I
was at a restaurant.
I saw her in line.
Now keep in mind, I hadn't seen
this woman since high school.
And we never saw each other.
This was all done on the phone.
So one day I saw her in line.
I said oh, there she is.
So I called out her name,
and she looked at me,
and she left the restaurant.
She was so embarrassed,
because she'd
give up what she thought were
like dark secrets and things
she was working through.
It was good for her when
I was like this person
on the other end--
>>SUE: Way over there.
>>BECKWITH: --praying for
her, and giving her guidance.
When she actually saw me--
>>SUE: Makes it real.
>>BECKWITH: --she
never called me again.
And then I thought to
myself, I didn't even
have this phone
number in high school.
And at that time, my
phone was unlisted.
So I don't know how
she got the number.
>>SUE: This was a
cosmic phone call.
>>BECKWITH: It was
a cosmic phone call.
And it put me on the
trajectory of what
I were to do in my life.
>>SUE: Yeah, it
started to align you.
And then that
parlayed into Agape.
>>BECKWITH: Yeah, it parlayed.
I mean, I started seeing
people one on one,
and then I got a spiritual
counseling license later on.
I was seeing people--
six to eight people every
single day for years.
And I would see miracles, and
all kinds of manifestation,
and people's lives changing.
And then that parlayed into me
going to the School of Higher
Consciousness to get a degree.
And interestingly
enough-- so I wasn't going
there to start a community.
I was going there
because I liked
being in the frequency
of people who
had something to offer in
terms of a higher conversation.
So I'm going to class.
It took me five years to go
through a three-year program,
because I had no
interest in graduating.
I just liked meeting
certain teachers.
If they had something, I would
take that class, you know,
if they had a new way of
languaging some of my insights.
And then one day, the Assistant
Dean said to me, Michael,
when are you going to graduate?
I said, I'm not
trying to graduate.
>>SUE: Graduate?
>>BECKWITH: She said--
>>SUE: This is about graduating?
>>BECKWITH: She said
you are aware that when
you graduate, as alumni,
all classes are free?
I said really?
>>SUE: Oh, I'll
graduate next month.
>>BECKWITH: So I took a full
load and got out of there.
And then there was this
intense pressure from inside
to start a community.
And I resisted that
for a long time,
because I was in another
spiritual community.
I was running the youth program.
I was doing
spiritual counseling.
I was doing classes, workshops.
I had a pretty
full life already,
and I didn't want to take
on starting something.
But eventually, my
resistance was worn down.
>>SUE: So right,
eventually, it just
has to unfold, our destiny.
So I'm here at the
"Healing Matrix,"
all about pulling together
all the ways that people heal.
What is it that
happens that allows
for healing to happen
in an individual's life,
in their body, in
every aspect of them,
every dimension of their being?
What is it that
people are seeking
when they come to Agape?
When they're seeking a
spiritual avenue toward healing,
what kind of healing
are they seeking?
What's behind that?
>>BECKWITH: You know, there's
so much in so many levels.
But ultimately, an
individual is seeking
to connect with themselves.
They have gotten--
as I say, they've
gotten aligned with
the content flowing
through their consciousness.
And they think that
content is who they are--
their experiences,
their interpretation
of past experiences.
And that content has produced
experience in their life--
coagulation,
stagnation, ill health,
stagnation around success.
And so they're seeking to have
an awareness, an awakening
as to who they are--
their real identity,
not the son or daughter
of a parent, not
where they were born,
not what school they went
to, but an actual awareness,
a growing awareness
as to who they really
are as a nominal being,
spiritual being, a timeless
being.
And that's big.
So many of them don't
know that consciously
that's what they're seeking.
They think they want a better
employment, or a better
relationship, you know,
they want the stuff.
Which there's nothing
wrong with that at all.
But ultimately, they
want to know themselves.
>>SUE: They really want
to know who they are.
Who am I?
What am I?
And you and I both
know that that
is at the root of all healing,
when that answer starts
to come forth, and we start
to land and connect with that,
healing starts to unfold.
It can't not.
>>BECKWITH: It's the
natural by-products.
>>SUE: Because we are that.
>>BECKWITH: Because healing
is actually a revelation.
It's actually the revealing
of our intrinsic wholeness,
that we can't add anything
to ourselves at all.
We're already-- there's already
a perfection that's unfolding.
And so what we're doing
is wiping away the dust.
We're getting away the
grit, the perceptions,
the limited point of
view, so people can see.
People suffer from a
spiritual astigmatism.
They can't see reality.
They can't see themselves.
And they only experience
their thoughts about reality.
Most people don't expect reality
at all, only their thoughts
about it.
And so yeah, as you said,
once we know who we are, then
the natural thing
that happens is
there's a revelation of
wholeness in areas of our life.
We become like a child again.
The innocence is there.
It doesn't have a shelf life.
It doesn't have an
expiration date.
>>SUE: Yes, exactly.
More on that.
So we want to share a story
about how Reverend Michael's
teaching helped a Gaia member
through her darkest times.
Take a look.
>> Hi.
My name's Julie.
And I'm not only
a member of Gaia,
but I'm also a staff
member here at Gaia.
I want to share with
you Reverend Michael
Beckwith and his church Agape
literally saved my life.
It all started
about 16 years ago
when my sister gave
birth to her first son.
She ended up with
cervical cancer,
and she died four days
after he turned two.
It was traumatic.
It was just as you would
expect it to be-- surreal.
Just when I thought I
could get through that,
my father died six months later.
I couldn't believe
what was happening.
My sister had just died.
I just lost my sister.
I had this baby that
I'm trying to figure out
how to help raise
with his father,
and now my own father is dead.
Six months after my
dad died, my mom died.
I remember talking
to her, saying
you can't die on me, Mom.
We just went through two
funerals back to back.
And she said, oh,
I'm not going to die.
Next thing you know,
she's on life support.
And I was literally faced
with taking her off life
support while she was awake.
Three deaths, back to back--
I barely had time to breathe
before someone else was dying.
And I didn't understand
what was going on.
I didn't understand how all
of this could be going on.
And I didn't know what
was going on with me.
I was really lost.
I was living in Los
Angeles at the time.
And so I went to
Reverend Beckwith's--
a service on a Wednesday night.
And I just remember
being flooded with love.
What he was preaching
about was about gratitude,
and I could find nothing
to be grateful for.
But I remember the way
he gave his sermon.
He said if you can
just find one thing--
because when you're in
a state of gratitude,
you're in a state of love.
And I just kept
listening to what he
was saying about how
to heal your heart,
and how you have to
find it within yourself.
I just kept going
and kept going.
And he would have
amazing speakers.
And I would go to his
Quiet Mind Bookstore.
The bookstore was
filled with books
about healing yourself,
and healing your soul,
and healing your heart,
from Neale Donald Walsch,
to obviously Reverend
Beckwith himself,
to many, many other authors.
One of my favorite
books that I got
was called "The Answer is You."
And I remember just underlining
and circling, and underlining
and circling, and going
back, and hearing his voice
in my head--
you have to heal yourself.
And so through that
process, one Sunday,
he was coming out
to the congregation
to talk to people
about their stories.
And I remember raising my hand.
And he came to me.
And I just was crying,
saying you saved me.
You got me through this.
And then I got to
a place where I
knew if I hadn't gone
through all that death,
I would never be to the
resolution where I am now.
So Reverend Beckwith, thank you.
Thank you for healing my heart.
Thank you for teaching
me how to heal myself.
And thank you for
giving me a new life.
>>BECKWITH: Wow.
>>SUE: Countless times.
What a beautiful thing.
And now she's on
a team of people
that are bringing healing
conversations to people
around the world.
>>BECKWITH: All
>>SUE: Because she found
this part of herself
that we're speaking about.
You spoke about
gratitude in the video,
about just finding
this one thing.
It doesn't matter what it is.
You just have to find
something to be grateful for.
Can you just share
with our viewers
a little bit about the
power of gratitude,
or what role that's playing?
>>BECKWITH: Absolutely.
Gratitude expands
our perception.
It's like if we're
focused and worried
about something in our life,
then all of our attention
is going towards a possible
worst case scenario.
And we experience that
biologically, chemically.
So if we shift our attention
and go to one little--
it doesn't have
to be monumental--
one thing to be grateful
for, our perception
begins to expand.
So it begins with
finding one thing.
And then something
begins to happen.
And you're able to take your
attention away from the thing.
And you're in a
field of gratitude.
It doesn't have to
be about anything.
You're just in this field.
That's a higher state
of consciousness.
And then when you're
in this field--
I don't know if people
have ever experienced this,
but I know that my mother
would sometimes say--
not to me, but to my brothers--
if you don't stop crying,
I'm gonna give you
something to cry about.
Well, the law works
like this-- if you
don't stop being grateful,
then the law will vibrationally
match, and give you more
and more to be grateful for.
>>SUE: Give you something
to be grateful for.
>>BECKWITH: Absolutely.
So in the beginning, you find
something to be grateful for.
Then you grow into just
being in gratitude.
It doesn't have to
have an object at all.
It's a very mature
state of gratitude.
You wake up, you
become grateful.
You go through traffic, you're
grateful you've got a car.
You're in line, you're grateful
you're in the supermarket line.
You can buy some
food, whatever it is.
Then after a while,
you're just in this state.
>>SUE: You use it as
a cue to direct you
into this place of gratitude.
You know, quantum
science is showing us
that it's a vibrational field.
And this, when it
comes to healing,
is so paramount, because we
have to realize that there's
a vibrational radio station that
we can dial into where healing
happens, and a different
radio station that we
can dial into where
healing does not happen.
And people don't realize
that it starts with us.
It starts with where am I
dialing my frequency into?
And does healing get to
happen on that bandwidth?
Or does it not?
>>BECKWITH: Absolutely.
And that becomes a
part of our practice.
You actually have a practice
where you practice gratitude.
You practice Thanksgiving.
You practice appreciation,
until it becomes your way.
And then sometimes
when you're down,
that's when you
practice it even more.
And then when
you're expanding, I
like to say you
ask the question,
how can it get better than this?
And you ask that question if
you're on a downward spiral,
you're on that frequency
of discomfort, disease,
not enoughness.
You say how can it
get better than this?
And then your mind will
start to be flooded
with how it can get better.
And then when you're
rising, and you're
having a really great day, you
ask the same question-- how
can it get better than this?
Because we're dealing with
something that's infinite.
So wherever you
are, you're barely
scratching the surface
of the next moment that
wants to emerge through you,
the next gift, the next power,
the next revelation.
So you stay in that
frequency until you're
living on an arc of
expanded awareness.
>>SUE: Yes.
Can you just speak to us about
victim consciousness conversely
to what we're speaking
about, this consciousness
of gratitude and being
in this expansiveness?
But what happens when
someone is locked in to just,
I just can't get out of it.
I just can't break through that
barrier, and on a regular basis
find this feeling of gratitude.
>>BECKWITH: Yeah.
Well, interestingly
enough, I would
say that many, many, many people
live in victim consciousness.
They have a belief that
something outside of themselves
determines their
destiny, determines
their happiness, their peace
of mind, their prosperity.
And victims have a victim story.
If you ask them why aren't
they happy, they know.
They can articulate to a T what
happened, when it happened,
who did it to them.
And they know the story so
well, that becomes the lens
that they look at life through.
So they're a victim.
So the idea is to become aware
of your victim conversation,
your victim
statements, and begin
to move into the vibration
of giving up blame.
You have to give up blame in
order to take the next step.
Forgiveness can actually be
summed up into I give up blame.
And then you begin to ask other
kind of empowering questions.
How can I grow from this?
What lesson do I need
to learn from this?
What lesson is the universe
giving me right now?
Because the universe
is progressive.
It doesn't go backwards.
It's constantly expanding.
You begin to ask a
different set of questions.
The victim questions are
what's wrong, who's to blame,
and why me.
That's where they live.
>>SUE: Yeah, it's all out there.
Push it out there.
>>BECKWITH: But when you ask
a different kind of question,
what lesson am I learning?
What gift is being honed in me?
You start to get answers,
because the universe will
answer any question you ask.
And it will start to move
you out of victimhood.
It's going to move you
through forgiveness, too.
It's going to move
you out of victimhood.
And you'll start to
take 100% responsibility
for your own healing.
>>SUE: And people are afraid
to take that responsibility,
because they feel so lousy.
The last thing
they want to think
is I'm responsible
for how lousy I feel.
>>BECKWITH: Absolutely.
But responsibility and blame
are not the same thing.
People, they make
them synonymous.
You have to take responsibility.
That means it's my fault.
No, that's not
what we're saying.
We're saying responsibility
means the ability to respond.
So when you take
responsibility, you
begin to respond to
a higher frequency.
Blame is something else.
Blame and shame and guilt, they
have no transformational value.
They keep you locked
into an old paradigm.
The egoic structure will
keep you your old self.
But when you ask
a higher question,
you take responsibility.
I take responsibility
for the thought
that's happening right now.
What is it going to be?
Is it going to be
a victim thought,
or is it going to be
an empowering thought?
I'm taking
responsibility for that.
No one's going to make
me think a certain way.
I don't care what
happened in my past.
This present moment
right now, I'm
taking responsibility for
my thinking, my perception,
what comes out of my mouth,
my conversations, my actions--
I'm taking 100% responsibility.
So then what happens is
inertia then becomes momentum.
You start to move in the
direction of your higher
conversation, and
your life changes,
because you've taken
responsibility, not blame.
>>SUE: Yeah, yeah.
So another thing that
I've seen with people
is that if they're stuck in
shame or guilt, or those kinds
of lower vibrational
frequencies,
that if they'll just embrace
it, just be present with it,
just love into that--
>>BECKWITH: Yes, absolutely.
>>SUE: --then you're
taking this responsibility
to that level where you are.
And it starts things in motion.
>>BECKWITH: That's
very important.
>>SUE: I don't have to be afraid
of a feeling that I'm feeling.
If I just feel it,
then it's gone.
Then it's done.
>>BECKWITH: Absolutely.
>>SUE: Then we don't have to--
>>BECKWITH: Plus you're
being present with it.
When we do exactly what
you just described,
you come out of
wishful thinking.
I wish this hadn't happened.
I wish I wasn't here.
I wish I hadn't done
whatever I did to bring this
into manifestation.
Wishful thinking
goes out the window,
and you just embrace what is.
And in that moment of
embracing, something happens.
You see that you're
actually spiritually bigger
than the thing that's going on.
Actually, it's in your
field, but it's not you.
And then it begins to dissipate
because of your awareness
that you're bigger than it.
You've totally embraced it.
You're not resisting it.
You're not fighting it.
You're not saying go away.
Say here it is.
And it gets to dissolve.
>>SUE: If I can hold space for
it, then I'm bigger than it.
I'm holding space for it.
It doesn't have a hold of me.
I can embrace it.
And that changes everything.
It starts this path
that we're describing.
>>BECKWITH: Everything.
>>SUE: You speak about
this path with four stages
of the development
of consciousness.
Can you just share with our
viewers about that structure
so they can kind of see that?
>>BECKWITH: The first one
we just described is victim.
You know, they did it to me.
It's somebody else's fault.
That doesn't mean that somebody
didn't do anything to you.
It doesn't mean that bad
things didn't happen.
We're not discounting that.
We're just saying we're not
living in that frequency.
We're aware that that happened.
But we can now move out
of that through the power
of forgiveness, through the
power of giving up blame,
and through the power
of taking responsibility
for our own life.
Then we move into stage two.
Stage two is the
manifester stage.
I'll give it to you
like this first.
First stage is to us--
something is happening to us.
The second stage is by us--
we're doing something.
The third stage is through us.
Energy is moving through us.
The fourth stage is as us.
We are the energy.
We are the presence.
So in stage two, you're
using your mind power.
You're using the art of
visualization, creative use
of your imagination.
You're re-enchanting
the imagination
to best-case scenarios.
You're changing
your conversation.
You're learning about
declarations, affirmations,
writing, how you want
to live your life.
You're basically
re-contextualizing your mind.
The mind is a set
of laws, set of--
in a way we've been inputed.
You're changing all of that.
We're doing this.
Then something
happens, and we start
to realize that there's
an order in the universe
that we didn't create.
We didn't create that order.
We depend on the order.
So then we learn about releasing
ourselves to it-- surrendering,
yielding, allowing.
By us is masculine.
Through us is feminine.
By us is I call it the
Nike stage-- just do it.
Make it happen.
Stage three is make it
welcome, because it's
happening cosmically.
So I start to
release myself to it.
I'm available, but it's
come from the hard work
I've done on stage two.
Don't transcend what
you haven't mastered.
So definitely we
master stage two.
But we yield into stage three.
And then we begin to
have pinprick awarenesses
that this life, this
presence, it's us.
We're it.
It's not just
operating through us,
but it's operating
and expressing as us.
I'm in it.
It's in me.
There's no separation.
The wave is a
function of the ocean.
The sunbeam is an
expression of the sun.
No sun, no sunbeam.
No ocean, no wave.
No presence, no us.
So we start to have pinprick
awarenesses around that.
And some people
are afraid of that.
They think it's blasphemy.
You think you can be at
one with God, or at one
with the presence?
No, it's blasphemy to limit it.
You see, we don't
want to limit it,
because if it's omnipresent,
because it's everywhere,
it must be where I am,
and it must be who I am.
>>SUE: This is so powerful.
And I think that even
to repeat this idea
that it's OK to engage this
way, that it's not blasphemy.
It's not that you're
putting yourself
bigger than the universe,
or bigger than God,
for that matter.
It's all about
participating as part of
and belonging to
this great wave,
rather than operating as
a separate self, where
healing does not happen.
So can you can you relate
how healing relates
inside of your structure?
Just on a physical level, on
an emotional level, mind, body,
soul, what--
can you tie all that
together for people?
>>BECKWITH: Absolutely.
It's hard to even say I've
been doing Agape for 33 years.
And then I was a counselor
for seven years before that.
I mean, I've been
doing this a long time.
So I've seen individuals
have shift of character.
I've seen individuals have
healings of the physical body
temple, when the prognosis was
this is not going to happen.
I've seen individuals come
back from tremendous setbacks
financially--
lose businesses.
So I've seen it all
across the board, when
an individual discovers
and participates
in their own unfolding,
that they are one with life.
And they have a
spiritual self-love
and a self-appreciation that's
not born from accomplishment,
but that's intrinsic to who we
are as our spiritual nature.
Revelation occurs.
People are guided and directed
through their intuition,
through--
their innate wisdom is
activated to do the right thing
to bring about what is necessary
for their healing, which
is a revelation of wholeness.
There's no stone unturned.
I remember a woman that was just
graduating from my practitioner
class.
And I asked the class,
what did you want
the class to hold space for?
And she said I want to be moved
up on the kidney transplant
list.
And I said, why don't we try to
heal the kidneys that you have?
And she said no, the doctors are
saying this is a rare disease.
They've never seen any
healing in this area.
I need to be moved up.
And she was very
resistant to me,
to saying can we just try it?
No, no, no, no, no, no.
So all of a sudden, I
thought about this story
that Alan Watts used to
share about his wife.
His wife is perpetually late.
So he would always lie about the
time to get her to come early,
but she was always late.
So one day he's sitting
at Central Park.
He asked her to come
to lunch, but he
said you have to be
on time, because I
have to go to a meeting.
She's late.
His mind starts to go crazy.
She doesn't respect me,
doesn't respect my time.
Then he says to himself,
my wife respects me.
She loves me.
She just has a casual
relationship to time.
While I'm waiting,
I'll meditate.
So she gave him plenty of
opportunity to meditate, OK?
So that story came into my mind.
So I said to her--
her name was Donna.
I said Donna, while we're
waiting for the kidney
transplant, why don't
we see what we can do?
And she said OK.
So I gave her this book.
In the book, it talked about
the healing of kidneys,
and how metaphysically there's
stagnation in your life,
blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
So she had to read
that every day.
>>SUE: Unresolvedness.
>>BECKWITH: Right.
And then I said to the
class, how many of you
today got up and gave thanks
that your kidneys worked
and you could pee today?
And nobody raised their hand.
I said this is your role--
every time you go to the
restroom, you pray for Donna.
I called it the
praying while peeing--
pee pee prayer.
So 30 days later, we meet.
They're about to take
their oral exams.
And Donna can't wait to share.
She said her kidneys
spontaneously started working.
And the doctors wanted to do
a slight operation to see why.
She refused.
Now that was 10 years ago.
She is still rolling.
>>SUE: She has her own kidneys?
>>BECKWITH: She has
her own kidneys.
Everything is fine.
But she changed her
awareness about it.
And she had a field
of people that
were holding space for her.
Her kidneys
spontaneously healed.
And I've seen that.
You know what's
funny about that?
It's not funny.
But about four weeks after
that, this little boy walks up
to me at Agape, he says my
mommy is going to the hospital.
She has to have a
kidney transplant.
And I just said
she's going to be OK.
I just waved my hand over her.
And her kidneys started working.
And she's-- same.
She's at Agape-- nothing.
So I've seen a lot of healings.
But I think it was
the combination of me
and her little son, who
were just like Dr. Beckwith
with can do anything.
>>SUE: The purity of innocence.
>>BECKWITH: He was so innocent--
>>SUE: 100%.
>>BECKWITH: --and so pure.
>>SUE: You know,
epigenetics is teaching us
that the vibrational
frequency that
hits the surface of
the cell is picked up
by these little antennas.
And then they relate
information inside the cell,
and that's what
tells the cell what
chemistries-- what chemistries
to produce, or how to function.
And so when someone makes
this declaration that says,
hey, I am, and I'm going
to let this happen for me,
or this is going to
happen for you, Mom,
because Reverend
Beckwith said it would.
>>BECKWITH: Right, and I
got agreement from her.
>>SUE: That certainty allows--
>>BECKWITH: I mean, yeah.
I got agreement from her too.
I made her look at me.
I said can we agree with your
son that you're going to be OK?
Yes, I agree.
>>SUE: So the mind
field changes,
and it changes
the message that's
coming to the
surface of the cells,
and the cells change the
chemistry that they're
producing, and the body heals.
>>BECKWITH: There it is.
>>SUE: It's pretty phenomenal.
Now, you speak about
the feedback loop,
that this body temple is
the perfect feedback loop.
Can you share about that?
The detail about
what that means?
>>BECKWITH: Absolutely.
Instead of railing
against the body temple,
you basically use
it as feedback.
So if something is going
wrong in your perspective,
it actually has a
message in there.
And if you become
still, you can actually
ask what is it that
you're telling me?
And in sincerity, listen--
not with your ears,
but with consciousness.
Listen with your entire being.
You'll start to get wisdom and
guidance as to where you're out
of alignment in life.
It could be in
your conversation.
It could be in some
habits that you have.
You'll start to get feedback
that that particular dis-ease
is giving you.
You come back into alignment.
And then the dis-ease
becomes ease.
You come back into harmony,
back into homeostasis, back
into wholeness.
So the body is feedback.
What is it saying to
you across the board?
You need some rest?
You need nutrition?
You need right exercise?
You know, what is it?
Is it something
missing nutritionally?
What is it?
You'll get the feedback.
And if you follow
it, if you obey,
then the body temple will come
back in a very powerful way.
I believe that the
body can heal anything.
It's genius.
>>SUE: So do I.
>>BECKWITH: There's no
disease big enough to--
if the person is
in alignment, yeah.
>>SUE: If we're allowing
that flow to flow,
and if we're
connecting with that.
And when people
don't know how to do
that, they get a little afraid
that they are going to be stuck
on their medications,
they're going
to have to keep doing what
they're doing, because they
don't know what to do instead.
And so can you speak to
where would someone start?
How do you begin to know that
you're doing something that's
going to lead to a healing
environment for this body,
to have the true
role in our life
that it's really
intended to have?
>>BECKWITH: First
of all, you have
to realize that there are
people called minor deities,
MDs, that give you
diagnosis and prognosis.
You cannot allow them
to give you a prognosis.
They can give you a diagnosis.
But the prognosis is between you
and you, you and the presence.
And so you have to formulate
your own prognosis.
You have to actually
tell yourself
my body can heal
anything, and I am
the candidate for the
revelation of wholeness.
So you have to
begin with yourself.
Many people get
caught up in the--
under the aegis of
the medical model.
And when a minor deity tells
you something, particularly
a prognosis, you believe it.
And then as you said,
your cells hear that.
They believe what you believe.
And they start to
produce the chemicals
according to that belief.
So you shift your own prognosis.
You actually write
out, you know,
I'm willing for my
body temple to up level
to complete healing and
wholeness every single day,
getting better every day.
You have to enter into it
with that kind of vibration.
And then you choose
a partner that
holds you accountable to that--
doesn't let you go
into your pity party,
into a downward spiral
of conversation.
That can be a
spiritual counselor
or a real good
friend, the trust.
You begin to examine
your hydration,
your nutrition, you
exercise, your rest.
You begin to examine that.
Where is that off line?
But it always
begins in the mind.
>>SUE: Yeah.
You are a passionate man, and I
have a lot of passion and fire
about this exact same topic.
And I'm also very aware
that we want our viewers
to be able to plug into
this stream of consciousness
that we're speaking about.
And so what can
you say for someone
who doesn't feel the passion?
That they can write these
goals out for themselves,
write their new diagnosis,
but they're not feeling it?
What role does that
play in the outcome
that they're looking for?
>>BECKWITH: For years--
>>SUE: Can you guide
someone in that way?
>>BECKWITH: For years, I've
said that this feeling--
the universe is a
feeling universe.
Feeling provides the context
for healing in one's life.
So I would say
take your attention
and put it on
something that brings
about a good feeling for you.
It doesn't have to be
about your healing.
It could be about
someone you love.
It could be a little
kid in your life
that when you think
about this kid,
you just feel so much
joy, so much happiness.
Or you think about someone that
gave you a really good gift,
not a re-gifting gift, but
something that you really
loved and appreciated,
and you notice how
you felt when you received it.
Now when you felt--
when you received that
gift, your chemistry
changed at that moment.
You became grateful.
You became thankful.
Oh, my.
You came appreciative.
You go back to that moment.
I ask people to close their
eyes, capture that moment,
and then take some
breaths and amplify it.
Amplify that feeling.
Amplify that feeling, until
you're living in that feeling.
Regardless of whether you're
thinking about that person
or not, you have the feeling.
It's amplified.
Now go into your conversation.
Now go into your affirmation.
Now go into your writing.
Even though the feeling has
come from something else,
it's still operating
in your body temple.
It's still changing the
chemistry of your body.
It's still opening up
those blood vessels,
so that oxygen is flowing
better-- this greater coherence
of the brain.
Now you're in league
with the harmony
that you want to
have in your body.
So you can start
off passionless,
but you can actually build up
the passion in your own life.
>>SUE: What is the role
of unforgiveness in that?
How does that fit in?
>>BECKWITH: That's a
very important question.
Where there is unforgiveness,
there's stagnation, blockage,
and they're thought
forms and perceptions.
And thoughts are units
of mental energy.
And they produce
that same frequency
over and over and over again.
So it becomes stagnant.
And then it creates perception.
So you actually
see life that way.
And as you see life
that way, you actually
experience life that way.
You could be standing in the
middle of great opportunity,
and won't even see it, because
the unforgiveness is blocking.
The other thing unforgiveness
does is create debt.
Because if you are in
resentment towards someone,
or have a level
of unforgiveness,
the message to the
universe is they
stopped me from
having something.
They are preventing me
from having something.
Or they owe me something.
Now in physical life, somebody
might owe you something.
We don't discount that.
But if you're walking around
with that stagnant thought,
that I can't be happy because
they owe me something,
then the universe
says you have lack.
In other words, you're
sitting here in lack
because that person
owes you something.
So that spins out as
lack in your life.
The law says, oh, you
don't have something?
Let me show you what
that looks like.
You see?
>>SUE: It has no
choice but to respond
to what we're commanding.
>>BECKWITH: It doesn't care
whether you're a good person.
You can be the best person in
the world, follow all the laws,
pay your taxes, never
run a stop sign.
You can be a good person,
have a good personality.
But inside, you believe
someone owes you something,
or you're lacking something
because of that person,
then that law operates on that.
And you'll end up having debt
or lack in your life based
on unforgiveness.
So to empower yourself,
forgiveness is the way.
Give forth a harmonious energy.
>>SUE: And can you define
forgiveness for our viewers?
>>BECKWITH: On one
level, forgiveness
is the releasing of toxins,
resentment, animosity,
grudges that are within us.
All forgiveness is
self-forgiveness.
Even if you're trying
to forgive someone else,
they're not really out there.
That's a figment of your
imagination, you see.
You're actually
releasing the toxins
that are within you that you
are projecting onto that person.
So when you release
those toxic thoughts,
those units of mental energy,
you become free flowing.
And now life can start to
express through you again.
And what do you do?
You're cutting the
emotional cords
that you have with
that individual.
You're saying in substance
what you did or did not do
does not determine my destiny.
I cut myself free from you.
I wish you well,
and I'm moving on.
>>SUE: You end up being able
to be more present with them,
love them, and have a
better relationship,
because you actually cut through
the thing that was keeping you
from being free to be in the
loving presence with them
in relationship to them.
>>BECKWITH: Absolutely.
Now there are stages
in forgiveness.
The first stage is willingness.
You have to be
willing to forgive.
Most people, no, I'm gonna take
this resentment to my grave.
No, it's going to take--
that resentment is going
to take you to your grave.
>>SUE: Take you to your
grave, sooner, probably.
>>BECKWITH: Right.
So one is willingness.
Number two is actually the
practice of forgiveness,
that you actually cut
the cord, let them know--
they don't have to
be sitting there--
in your own awareness that what
they did or did not do cannot
determine their destiny.
I forgive you.
I set you free.
And then the third
stage is actually
being willing to see something
from their perspective.
It's just a willingness.
It's like, I wonder how
they saw this situation?
>>SUE: Yeah, very powerful.
>>BECKWITH: And then
you'll start to open up.
You say, oh, maybe
they didn't think
they did such a bad thing,
or maybe they thought they
were justified, or whatever.
It's like our Native
American brothers and sisters
say, walk a mile in
another person's moccasins.
You actually see something
from another point of view.
Then the next stage is wish
them well, but for real.
Not--
>>SUE: Yeah, good
luck with that.
No that.
>>BECKWITH: Yeah,
but really say it,
and hope that life works out for
them in a very beautiful way.
And then the next stage,
which is difficult for people,
is to actually do something
for them anonymously.
Send them $1 in the mail.
Send them a love note.
>>SUE: Just something
that opens you.
>>BECKWITH: Open you.
You're giving-- you're
releasing energy.
So it's not just
all in your head.
So if you actually go through
those stages of forgiveness,
when you hear that
person's name,
you're not going to contract.
You actually want to say
I hope they're doing well.
I really do.
>>SUE: So let's say that we
have a viewer watching who
has a diagnosis, or
they're feeling disharmony
in their life in some
way, or just a disconnect.
How might you guide them to
utilize that exact circumstance
toward an awakening in
their own life experience?
>>BECKWITH: You kind of gave
the answer in your question,
and that is we want to
use this for awakening.
So if someone is going through--
they've received a diagnosis.
Instead of railing
against it, you
come to total--
first thing you do
is you come to a
total acceptance,
that this is what's going
on in my life right now.
I have this
diagnosis, whatever it
is, from cataracts to cancer.
You say what is it telling me?
Where's it telling me to shift?
Where is it telling
me to change?
And I'm receptive to that.
Actually, this is not
a one and done thing.
This is a daily practice.
OK, that's one thing.
Then the next thing
is to actually begin
to come into a
level of coherence
around your self-worth,
your value, and the gifts
that you are to give the planet.
And so you have to think
about the moments in your life
where you were absolutely--
absolutely loved for no reason.
You didn't win an award.
Somebody just got you.
They just loved you.
They just appreciated you.
And what did that feel
like to be totally loved?
Now that unconditional love
is infinitesimal to how much
the presence loves you.
So you grow into that, so
you're having an awareness
that you're worthy.
You're loved.
You're appreciated.
That becomes the chemical
makeup for your trajectory
towards healing.
So you're asking
what does it mean?
Now what does it mean doesn't
mean what's the cause of it.
We don't want go--
the disease doesn't
have a cause,
because it doesn't exist
in the spiritual realm.
It has a meaning.
What does this mean?
Where am I out of alignment?
Where can I grow?
And you combine
that with generating
a level of self-worth, value
in what I have to give.
You combine those
two things together,
and there will be
movement in your soul,
and then movement
in your body temple.
>>SUE: Beautiful.
You speak about awakening.
For those that don't really
understand exactly what that
might mean for them, you speak
about three kinds of awakening.
>>BECKWITH: You've done
your research very well.
>>SUE: Can you-- can you--
I love you.
Can you share with our viewers?
>>BECKWITH: Yeah, we can cover
awakening a couple of ways.
One is what you've
just described,
the three kinds of awakening.
Most people are familiar--
you go to bed at night.
They sleep.
They dream.
They wake up.
Everyone's familiar with
that kind of awakening.
The next level awakening is
when you leave your body,
and you realize the
body-- you're alive
independent of the body.
That can come through lucid
dreaming, astral traveling.
People have near-death
experiences.
People have traumatic
things happen,
and suddenly they're looking
at the doctor operate on them,
but they're not there.
They're on the ceiling, looking.
That's the second stage of
awakening, where you actually
realize your consciousness
is independent
of the physical body.
Your consciousness uses
the body for expression.
And the third state of
awakening is when you actually
have the awareness that you are
one with God, one with life,
one with the presence.
That sense of separation
has dissolved.
And you realize the universe
has said tag, you're it.
You're in the presence.
So those are three
stages of awakening.
Now awakening occurs
when we realize--
no, we are awareness itself.
You know, we don't
just have awareness.
We are awareness.
And our body temple
is in our awareness.
This building is
in our awareness.
We are in each
other's awareness.
And I like to say that--
this is an analogy-- you
have the ocean, pure H2O.
Then there's content
in that ocean.
There's things in the ocean.
There's boats.
There's pollution.
There's all kinds of stuff.
But that stuff that's in
the ocean is not the ocean.
It's stuff that's in the ocean.
So the stuff that's
in us is not us.
It's just in us.
It's in our awareness.
Now every time we're
able to have an insight,
we realize that that content is
not us, but we're watching it.
That's awakening.
The average person actually
thinks that they are sad,
or they actually think that
experience that they had,
that's who they are.
No, that's content.
That's not who you are.
Who you are is the
person looking at it.
And so through
meditation, through
different spiritual
practices, you're
able to little by
little by little
see, oh, that's content
passing through.
It's not who I am.
And now you're waking up.
>>SUE: Mm-hmm.
What if someone is watching that
is facing this idea of death
in their life, their own life,
in their family, a loved one?
How do they translate
that into the circuitry
that they've been
raised in, thinking
that this is an imminent
thing that is not good,
and I do not know
how to deal with it?
What can we just
offer our viewers?
>>BECKWITH: You know, all
the mystical teachings,
whether you go through
the Tibetan book
of the dead, different
mystical teachings
of the teachings of the
Christ, or whatever it is.
If it's a path with
heart, it ultimately
bumps into the awareness that
we have a temporary expression
on Earth, but we never die.
That this life that we are, this
awareness, this distinct unit
of energy called us,
it doesn't suffer birth
and it doesn't suffer death.
It continues to unfold.
Now because of how
we've been taught,
and because we're so body
conscious that we actually
think that this is who we
are, that we become very, very
frightened when it's time
to cross that divide.
What we want to
begin to do, we want
to begin to have seeped into
the awareness of our culture,
not just at the mystical level,
but at the regular level--
this is a pass through.
We're coming to pass.
We're coming.
And so during the
time we have here,
this parenthesis
that we have, we
want to share and give and
love, and bring back, bring out
our gifts, because the only
thing that people are going
to be upset about is the
unrealized potential, the gifts
that they didn't give, the
things that they didn't go
for, because they were afraid,
the closing of the heart
and not loving, not sharing.
You want to be more
frightened of that
than the demise
of a body temple.
Because when you cross
over and look back--
and I've been on the
other side many times--
you cross back and
look back, you're
going to be very
upset at yourself
of the love you didn't share,
the gifts you didn't give,
the activation of potential.
That's frightening to the soul.
But the releasing
of a body temple?
>>SUE: Not so much.
>>BECKWITH: Not so much.
And, of course, we have
tremendous compassion
on ourselves and on people
who lose loved ones.
I mean, you're with somebody
20, 30, 40, 50, 60 years,
sadness is there.
We don't deny that.
We don't deny the sadness.
We embrace it.
You know, we deny the
fact that we're missing
somebody-- we embrace it.
But as far as death itself,
it doesn't have any power.
>>SUE: It doesn't happen.
>>BECKWITH: It doesn't exist.
You know, as the Native
Americans tell us,
there's a word for death
in one particular tribe,
and it means not
here, somewhere else.
It's a literal translation.
>>SUE: They're not
here right now.
>>BECKWITH: They're not here.
They're somewhere else.
>>SUE: Because we know that.
We just weave into
another grand adventure.
And the key is for
us to be able to wrap
our minds around
that whole picture,
so that we're not afraid of
any aspect of the whole process
of passing through.
>>BECKWITH: Absolutely.
Embrace your grieving.
Embrace the sadness.
Embrace the missing.
Don't try to chemicalize
it away, or have
a whole lot of
compulsive behaviors
that are going to take you
away from feeling that.
In our culture,
they do that a lot.
You know, you have
irregular sadness,
and they want to give you a
pill so you're not being sad.
No, no, you're
supposed to be sad.
>>SUE: You're supposed
to feel it all.
>>BECKWITH: If your
best friend just
died, you're supposed
to feel sad, you know?
So you don't take something to--
no, no, no.
Be with your sadness.
Walk through it.
Have somebody walk
through it with you.
>>SUE: You're guiding people in
such beautiful, beautiful ways.
I know that your book,
"Life Visioning,"
is an amazing process of guiding
people in this sort of way,
putting a structure to
visioning for their lives.
Can you share anything
about the book
that might help our
viewers understand
what they might grieve?
>>BECKWITH: This
particular piece is--
this is how I started Agape.
I actually used a life visioning
process to begin Agape.
And all of our particular
departments in our community
have a visioning
staff, where they meet
and actually vision as to
what's trying to emerge next.
So in this book
carries the four stages
of spiritual growth development
that we talked about,
visualization being
part of stage two,
visioning being a
part of stage three.
It covers all of that.
So it's a lot of material
in that book about how
to practice it.
Because individuals can
have theory all day long.
But unless they actually
sit down and do the practice
and integrate, it's just
going to be memorization,
and then that causes
stagnation, and then
that causes spiritual
constipation.
Actually, it's a book
of how to practice it.
And it's been out for a
while, but people love.
It keeps on selling.
>>SUE: It's a beautiful book.
And also, you have
a new small book
out for people who
might be interested.
>>BECKWITH: Yeah, I have a book
called "Prosperity, Plenitude,
and Infinite Possibilities."
It just came out a
couple of weeks ago.
It was a companion
piece to an online class
that people can sign up for at
Agapelive.com of the same name.
And so you can take
the class online,
and then you can get
the book, because it
carries other material as well.
>>SUE: Mm-hmm.
Reverend Michael, you
are an amazing individual
on the planet.
It is a great joy to be
with you every moment
that I get to be with you.
When I met you, I
instantly knew that you
were a brother from
beyond, and we've
had much, much fun
dancing in the ethers
together over the years.
And it is so
wonderful to have you
here on the "Healing
Matrix," sharing
your infinite wisdom and your
huge, huge, cosmic heart.
Thank you so much
for being here.
>>BECKWITH: Sue Morter,
thank you so much.
You're one of my favorite
people on the whole planet.
You say come, I'm coming.
And yeah, we recognize each
other from that moment.
>>SUE: People were
trying to get us
to meet each other for years.
>>BECKWITH: For years, I know.
>>SUE: We sat down, and boom.
>>BECKWITH: Oh, you're her.
>>SUE: Oh it's-- I get it.
I see it.
>>BECKWITH: Yeah, I
talk about you a lot,
and you do great work.
I'm just glad that we're
friends and colleagues.
And it's a great
part of my life.
>>SUE: Yeah, so
much more to come.
If you are in
sickness or in health,
we can all apply Reverend
Michael's wisdom to our lives.
We can detox with forgiveness,
heal the heart with gratitude,
and awaken to our
greatest potential,
because the answer is us.
I'm Dr. Sue Morter.
Thank you for joining
us on "Healing Matrix."